# Voice Description Escalating

So, um, I thought I would record a voice note because today is one of those days where I'm having an immensely difficult time in actually um getting out of bed. Um, I am embedded 4:00 in the afternoon. This is not something typically, that typically happens. I'm in bed because I am, I live in Jerusalem, and uh there is the Iranian war going on, and we had just a crazy, crazy night. Um, I was up late last night, which I knew was kind of risky. Um, in this war, you kind of learn, we've been at war for almost a month. It's going to be a month. Today is a and I'm recording this on the 26th of March. I should probably have started with that. And on the 28th, there's going to be a month. So a long time, and much longer than the 12-day war that was only last summer. And, um, basically, I was up last night doing, trying to finally get back into some kind of a groove um with everything that's been disrupted and uh but then this morning I woke up to the first rocket siren at like, I'm going to say 7:00 in the morning, approx, and then we had like just one of those, I'm looking at the alerts now on the television and I can see they're sending rockets to, that's like, Hezbollah fire uh to the top of the country, Upper Galilee. So, it's very much there is attacks going on all over all the time. Um, it's a bit unnerving to actually have it up on a screen like this. It is a vibe-coded app that I created um called Red Alert Geo-Dash, and how it's cool how many open-source projects are coming out there at the moment. Like, there is this, um and someone else created another one called ORF Alert. So, and it's actually better. No, uh they've all got. This one has its own unique features to it. Um, but the fact that these can be created by bunches of people in a few hours is revolutionary. Um, anyway, so, coming back to the rockets, yeah, so we went out to the shelter and then it was just like three or four more rounds of it. So we came back, tried to sleep um for another 20 minutes. Our son, Ezra, was also woken up. Another attack, I don't know, it's something about that like going back to sleep for 20 minutes thing that just when you do finally just give up on trying to get back to sleep, you're just exhausted, so hence I'm in an energy deficit, um, waiting for some coffee to kick in, turning on my computer. Now, the purpose of this rambling voice note for anyone who ever listens to this is to create a voice sample. And I'm creating a voice sample because I um have used, I'm using Text-to-Speech (TTS) for a lot of projects. Um, but most significantly, I think, is my AI-generated podcast. It's called My Word Prompts, mywordprompts.com, and for voice cloning, so the podcast is basically these two um characters. It's Herman and Corn. Corn is a sloth, Herman is a donkey, and these are two stuffed animals um that my wife and I have. And uh they were actually both created, so they're both, it's using Chatterbox, uh which is from Resemble AI, and what's really crazy about it is it's like a, I think, 30-second sample. And that's it. So, each character is me doing a voice for 30 seconds. Um, I'm not going to do the voice because my, my uh my idea for creating this voice note, as I've explained shortly, is to have some just random voice data for my own use. And I'm recording this and putting it out on GitHub publicly because I realized from all the podcasts and YouTube videos I've done, if anyone does want to make a deep fake voice clone of me, um they already have all the information they need. Please don't, please don't do that. Um, we will all be voice cloned at one point like deep fakes. That's a good uh thought for reality. That's a good question, I think. Um, occasionally, people think or someone says, for the Claud Code Index that I created, um the guy who creates the indexing repo, um actually, I think, I'm not sure if he's, I'm not sure if he still thinks I'm a bot, um or if I've convinced him of my humanity. Um, but I am a human, and it's kind of, I guess, there's something, there's something kind of funny about that. Uh, like I remember from my headshot, I really need to get a proper headshot done, and I did use Nano Banana in my last one, to try to like, I don't know, make it look a bit better, make make me look a bit haggard. And so I'm sure from Synth uh Synth is, so just like, to add to my to to add to the mis- to mystery, I now have like, I can see why uh I might seem bought like, but on my to-do list uh to get a professional headshot, I don't even know. Who does that anymore? I guess I should probably look for a photographer. That's probably who does a headshot. Um I'm not really a headshot kind of guy. Very corporate. So, I leaned into the AI for my for my little avatar pick. Um but my original one, there's plenty of photos of me on the internet or a few at least, that are not in any way AI-tampered, and it's just me. Um so what what what what could I do with this voice note? I have a few questions about about it and uh the reason I recorded the date is because I was listening to one of my old YouTube videos that came up in a search a few days back, and I realized our voices actually change over time. I mean, I guess that's obvious, right, but um even in a few years, you can hear these small differences. So, this is how we speak today, um and let me talk about the acoustic environment within which I find myself. Okay, I'm recording this on a OnePlus um, OnePlus 3, 5G, and I'm going to, I guess one use for this, I'm kind of just free free-styling as I record this, one use for having a voice uh sample that I found of is speech-to-text benchmarking. So, if you want to get a benchmark for the accuracy of a model, um if I can summon up the motivation to do so, I'll create a ground truth, which means you um either do transcribe it yourself, which is incredibly tedious, or you easier process is to guess um an AI model to do it. And then you listen back. There's a lot of apps that just let you scrub through the audio, and just fix up any things that got wrong, and that is your like 100% accuracy benchmark, and then you run that audio through Whisper or any other ASR model, or these days, I think audio-multimodal is a lot more interesting for transcription. And there's a few packages, I can never remember what they're called. Um, but there's a there's a well-known Python package for actually running a a benchmark. So, you can do it, it's actually pretty easy, um but very, very worthwhile, extremely worthwhile, in fact. Like, if you're going to be spending, I've uh mentioned in my podcast and my I guess anything I've written here, in my blog or elsewhere, that I have a very long-term view of voice tech. Um it has been life-changing, like absolutely brilliant technology. Um my only thing is I wish there was some it was better. Uh No, the accuracy is very good. I I'm the last thing I'm looking for is something that I can type with on my computer in real-time, like a streaming response one on the Ubuntu. And, to be honest, the only real need, the only real reason that's a need is the um is when I'm holding my dear son and I'm my hands are tied up. We're just at that stage where um it's the two of us, my wife and I, and uh as it's wartime, it's a little bit hard to find babysitters and uh so we're trying to just kind of hold it all together and do our, you know, work on stuff and take care of him. So, sometimes I'm holding him and I just, if I had a real-time text input, I could just quickly you know, jot something down into the computer. Um, so, before I before we diverge there, I was talking about my my the audio parameters, um, OnePlus, Nord, 3, 5G. That is my phone. And uh I have to say, the microphone here is pretty decent. Um, and I am recording this voice note today on the HQ setting. Let's see what the HQ setting actually entails. Um, it is, how do I find that out? Oh yes. WAV Stereo, 44.1 kHz, um noise cancellation. Ooh, so I have a setting in there that's maybe doing noise calculation. Well, this is this is going to be a one-shot one-shot data set. Um, so, it is it is what it is, but besides that feature, um, digitally, this version will be digitally unaltered. Um, it's just me. And uh I am speaking in an untreated audio environment, which is a fancy way of saying I'm walking in circles around my living room. And I think, from the one thing I've learned about TTS, the 30-second If you're trying to do voice cloning, so 30 seconds, it's really I've tried. I played around with my voices for the characters in this podcast, Herman and Corn. Um in that 30 seconds, you are you have to like have a range of emotion, that if you read the that that 30 seconds, I just basically said whatever came to mind. But if you say like, hi, this is Daniel, and I'm walking around the living room in Jerusalem, and I'm having a quite pleasant day today. Like, if you read something like a robot, then your voice clone will sound robotic. Now, if I really go out of my way to try change the way I'm speaking, and oh, I'm getting quite excited. That's really great. I'm so happy about that. Or, if I sound really tired. I'm just not feeling that great, right? Um those things, if you're training on a small set of um of voice audios, I what I actually ended up doing for those voice clones for anyone who's ever listened to this podcast is try to find something I could say in 30 seconds that I could have a bit of enthusiasm and a bit of the other opposite. So, I tried to read a 30-second uh sample that had different forms of um emotion in order to get a a varied uh form of prosody for the for the thing. Now, what other delightful things do I have because I'm going to try stretch this out to 15 minutes, and LFS storage in GitHub. GitHub say I have filled up my LFS storage. Now, I have to say, I pay for a lot of stuff in SaaS, um like lots and lots of different services. And the challenge, I think now that a lot of people are feeling is it's it's kind of like a death by 1000 cuts scenario. Um I'm already paying for GitHub, and how did I fill up so much LFS storage? I don't know, but I'm sure Claude knows. So, I'll probably ask Claude, hey, what's going on here? Um and I've uh changed over time to using blob storage and cloud storage and not putting files in repositories because it's not a not a very smart way to proceed and that's probably how I got there. But, you know, something's never changed. I am a backup uh worried person and the more the more that you have one project where you've got stuff, oh this is in a object store, this is in a repo, it becomes harder to actually get a decent backup. So, that's the only thing I don't like about it. Um final thing, who am I? Who is Daniel Rosehill? Well, I am 36. No, 37. Oh gosh. That sounds very old. Um yeah, late 30s. There's no escaping late 30s to 37. Like 36, it's kind of an edge case, like you know you're late 30s, but it could be argued you're late mid-30s, where 37 you just know you're you're practically 40. You're you're a grandfather. Um that's how old I am, and I live in Jerusalem, um and I moved to this part of the world uh from Ireland in 2015, um where I grew up, mostly in Cork, Ireland, although we did live in other countries, just for a year, nothing too glamorous. Uh we lived in The Hague and Aberdeen, when I was really little. So little that I don't remember any of it. Uh but we moved back to Cork and uh I moved to Israel because I'm Jewish, and I always just didn't really feel very in place in Ireland, um and I guess it was the way the whole Ireland-Israel relationship is soured. Uh you know, don't really regret that decision at all. Um I do believe Israel is the place for Jewish people to live, but I also want to be a peaceful part of the world. And the war with Iran is just and all the countries here, it's just a massive drain. One thing I would say is after October the 7th, um I kind of took a lot of refuge in AI. Um I had a YouTube channel that was fairly active, and I was making videos, and began attracting just a lot of like really nasty comments, very anti-Israel, often just explicitly anti-Semitic, and I just kind of at one day said, wait, I don't need to do this. Like, I don't know, from whatever YouTube revenue I was making, it was like maybe $50 a month or something. I was like, I I can just step back. Um I give myself permission to step back, and that's what I did. And the problem is once you step back, it's hard to it's hard to go back the other way. Uh but where was I? Oh yeah, the videos and the YouTube channel. Uh that was that was fun and important. I do actually now aspire to return, but it's going to be so different. Like, I even remember three or four years ago trying to find um videos, you know, royalty-free. Like there are so many ways AI is going to actually be really helpful, but I'm I'm past that point where like, I want to create good deep research videos, but it just becomes harder to justify time for this, I would say. That's the main issue. Um with the pressures of jobs and fatherhood. Uh like there's a lot of things I'm trying to be a bit more strategic about what I spend time on, but uh speaking of spending time on things, I do need to go and collect something shortly before 5:00. And I think that's been a decent pretty decent uh freestyle free-form audio sample, and I'm I'm just curious. Some something I've tried out in my TTS experiments and part of the reason I'm recording this um at this length is to see what um if I were to try to create a voice clone of myself, and of course, uh I I I will absolutely say I've tried a couple of times, just for fun. It's actually I've never got good results. In fact, I got terrible results. Now, I think I don't know how strong my Irish accent is still, after these after multiple years and being married to an American lady. Um but I always came out sounding American, and it just wasn't me. Uh what did I want to do? Probably, to be honest, prank my wife and my friends, like use a use a Robovox calling service and see if I could trick. You know, that's that's the kind of person I am. I'm I am a prankster. I love playing pranks on people, and uh but none none of the voice clones were were like prank grade. They were all uh they were all just kind of, no, that's not really me. That's like a weird botched American hybrid because I think when you're trying to do a voice clone, you've got all this training data, the baseline data that's that's predominantly trained on American speech, and then you're coming in with like this tiny little nudge of, wait, no. Actually, I have an Irish accent. This is how I speak. And this is my theory anyway. I don't know if it stands up to uh scrutiny, but it just doesn't shift the center point far enough. Um so the reason I mentioned that is I did try as a as an experiment for my characters in my AI production, and for myself. Okay, well, 30 seconds. Wouldn't 5 minutes be better, like get better results? And I actually found, to my surprise with Chatterbox, that as I went up towards like I remember for the first while in the podcast, I was actually really completely stopped now that I think about it. But we had these really bad hallucinations. The characters would just kind of like say unintelligible stuff, or say like they speak words that weren't even English or make yelping sounds. And uh it was problematic, and I was like trying to figure out what was going wrong. And I think the through trial and error, I actually overshot the training for Chatterbox. Like I gave it too much too long of a sample and actually instead of getting more consistent and stable and realistic voices, it actually ended up having the opposite effect and um having voices that I guess there was conflicts in the training data um basically created a lot of hallucinations. So I think that's enough uh use cases for this file: licensing, open source. Do I grant consent to being voice cloned? Not out of the bat, but you can ask me if it's a wise like if it's okay, if it's a legitimate use. If you need an Irish narrator, an Irish voice, if you for some reason like the sound of my voice and want to narrate something that is like in the public good, but do ask me, please receive my consent. Um That might be something useful, or otherwise it's just going to be something I have for my own reference uh because I can't I've a good amount of times when I've tried out new TTS models, and tried to do a clone on whatever they supported as training data, um one approach is to have like a lot of shorter files, which I've done, and that's kind of a tedious process, to be honest. You have to speak lots of short sentences and do the ground truth for each. I already have that data set. Um I much prefer just trying it out this way, like, okay, here's 20 minutes of me speaking. I may or may not have a ground truth. I'd love to see how well you can pick up on my voice. The other thing that I might do and a use case for this is I tried this before and it was pretty cool. It was a pretty good AI use case. Um I wanted to create a mix, like an EQ mix, because when I'm doing voice-overs in the podcast, this is this is as I said, pretty much just like minus the noise cancellation I forgot to turn off. Um this is just raw me speaking, and my idea was, well, my voice doesn't change that much from day-to-day. Um if I record this, can you can we run some parameters and see what a good EQ would be like for me? And it did that really well. And I can run this through Claud and say, okay, this is me speaking for 20 minutes, let's run it through Whisper. What like, what pace do I speak at? What What's my WPM? Um where is their mud? What frequencies is their mud at? Um Anything else distinctive about the way I speak, that if I wanted to create an EQ preset, do I need more de-essing? Do I need more So, that was actually probably one of the most pragmatic ones, and I encourage anyone interested, with one caveat, um it's microphone specific, so this might be my EQ for my OnePlus, it might not hold work as well on a different computer, different microphone. But you might learn some useful things about your own speech um that could make the process less guesswork because I did a I did a master class a while back with a friend who's a music producer, uh Ben Wallack, great guy, and uh like he he walked me through all the settings and it was it was amazing, but I've forgotten already what it was, so um for people getting into this, I think I will have to go now because I badly need to drink some water and probably stop pacing like a lunatic around this little box that we call our apartment. And until the next time, this has been a 20 21 minute approx sample of me speaking, what format recorded today, over and out.
